Bangalore

So I am sitting here in at Dunkin' Donuts in MG road, alone. The cafe is pretty empty, excpet for one other customer talking to a client on his phone. Brave is playing in the background and I bought myself a hot chocolate. Fucking expensive, Rs 180. But alright :) Im paying for sitting luxoriously, working on my laptop :) - the hot chocolate kinda sucks.

Anirudh's phone is switched off. I was meant to meet him yesterday at start work, staying at his place. He asked me to stay elsewhere for the night as he just returned from Chennai, saving a friend from the floods. And now his phone is switched off. Fucking unorganised people. Im supposed to be his responisibility. If it was someone else, they would have freaked. Im having fun :D 

Remember how I read about this travelingcoder early this semester? Im doing exactly that! 

I slept at Chaitanya's pg last night, and woke up quite early - 8am :P Kuljeet the fucker called me at 6am, asking me how to return the auto guy with Rs5 change when he had only a Rs 10 and Rs 20 note. Sahi main bakchod hai woh. At 8:30, Chaitanya left for work, and I set foot to travel bangalore. I googled cafe in bangalore and found this really cool place called Yogisthan. Brilliant place! They had this black labrador, that ran up to me as soonas i entered. At the gate, the sign board read "Leave your ego outside". Though the place was closed, the guys there seemed pretty nice and let me in, to have a look at the place. Will definitely go there again and spend a couple hours - probably meet more of my type of people :D This way Ive noticed, people in Bangalore are quite friendly and welcoming. Most autowallas still suck, :p, but watchmen, and pedestrians in general are helpful. 
I called mom after that, telling her about the Yogisthan idea. She should really start yoga classes like that. They charge fucking 5k per month, for 2 classes a week. but again, you pay for the serenity, the ambience and the positive atmosphere there. 

After that, I started looking around for more places. The metro. :D I have this attractiontowards traveling in metros. Idk. Maybe its the fact that there is the slightest of chance that I might meet my type of people that interests me. I did :)
Parinidhi. Her name was the last quesiton I asked. There was a waiting time of 9 minutes, and when I walked in, I promised myself I'd tell her shes one of the most beautiful woman I've seen so far in Bangalore. haha. But that'd be too straightforward. 
At halt number 2, the person sitting next to her got off, and I sat next to her. I started the conversation with a silly question, asking if the next stop was the one I wanted to get off on. I barely thought before speaking. And bam :D We hit it off really well. She's a CA, on month into her job, and she's already bored. hahah. She said it was really interesting initially, but now that shes becoming good at it, her work is becoming monotonous. 
So, is there any business that doesnt lead to boredom? Maybe its just very human to move on from a skill that youre really good at. 

I really like the music playing in the background at dunkin donuts, btw :D They played get lucky, and now there's a James Blunt song playing :)

I asked her where I could go to roam around. And she suggested me to travel with her to UCB, her office. Now this place is one of the most posh building/mall in Bangalore. We took an auto, and talked about our lives all the way :D She asked me if Im christian, because I dont look Indian. haha. Chinese?, I asked. She laughed, smiled and said yes :D Hahah. I dont have her number, I barely know her name, and Im almost certain we wont meet again. I wish I do. I really had fun talking to her :)

UCB, the mall was closed, and I really wanted a place to go to. You know, just sit and code. I started walking randomly, and landed up at MG Road. I found this school on the way, I think Bishop Cotton's. Ahan! Yes, from Alma Mater! :D That's where I know Bishops Cotton's from. They had a uniform was exactly the same as mine, 4 years ago, at GIIS. The McD shirt and blue pants. The kids playiong football sucked big time. Haha. I remember DAV days. Football was amazing fun then.

..Alright. And now Im here going to code.
There are several things on my ToDo list. One is my website that I really want to finish. Ive decided that the front page should have a simple letter to whoever opens my website. I need a good cover picture for the front page. Next I really need to make my projects and my skills page more legible. Samajh main aana chahiye sab, to even the dumbest of people, the moment they open it. I really want an experiences page too.
Then, the lifehacks app that I want to publish asap. Usme bas AlarmManager ka locha ho raha hai. Ill have to sit carefully and do it.
I want to scrape TTT and send across their app too. Sahi main mazza aa jayega agar they let me publish their app/ or pay me for the app.
Next, i need to talk to EaseMyTrip people. They have to refund my Rs5118. They didnt book my flight, but charged me money :( Will do that now.
I also talked to this guy incubated at IIMA before I left Ahmedabad, who wants to startup an image processing fashion industry. I will take up the project, but I really need to work hard for that. Thats something completely new that Ill have to learn.
I also have to choose whether Ill take up Chaitanya's work place's android app work. Theyll pay well, and I could probably complete it in 5 days max. 2 days is being too optimistic. 

Aaand finally. The thing Ive been willing to write about for paragraphs (:p) now. An app to checkin! A very simple app for travelers, to checkin - mark locations, take notes, and take pictures/videos of new places theyre at. I checked-in at atleast 10 places so far. Lots of cool places :)

I dont want to fill my Keep with such information. Ill look up the playstore for an app like this, but Im quite sure the one Im looking for isnt there. Ill search. If not, Ill make! 
Lets go through its features. Sticky notification to capture either of the following immediatley:
1. Random Musing
2. Photo/Video
3. Audio
4. Location
5. Date updated automatically.

Agh. But theres going to be a problem of grouping two events together. Hmm. Need to figure that out.
But how cool would that be! :D Your photos, videos, audios, everything would actually hold a meaning :) Yeh sahi main karna hai :D
Actually you know what. I could group together things on the basis of location. Yes! Thats perfect. That way differnet trips would be sorted differently!

..the music in the cafe sucks now. Im putting on my headphones and listening to champagene supernova. Its exactly 11:30 right now, ill probably leave at around 12:30. Ill work on my website right now, and call anirudh later.

