Making something gives me kicks.
I try hard to study and try to research and delve deeper into fields, but software creation at the core is what motivates me.

Samarth and I spent the entire day figuring out a way to notify ourselves which days ticket prices are the lowest on various websites. We started with MakeMyTrip cuz thats the website we use most often to book air tickets. 
We spent the entire day using Selenium, a webdriver to scrape the data. After almost 3 hours, we were successful, and were able to send an email to notify ourselves of a cheaper ticket on a particular day. Now that we had that done, we thought wed do the same for the rest of the websites. 
The problem? 
Slemium is very slow, plus the websites most ticket booking companies have are outright heavy.

Samarth left in the evening and we were both happy with the fact that we made good use of the day. 6 hours later, just before I was about to sleep, I couldnt help but check if there was a better way to solve the problem. Turns out, there is. And its easier than you can imagine.

Since the content is loaded dynamically, the ticket websites are fetching their content off their backend every time you refresh your page. There has to be a GET request for that right? I opened Devtools once again, and opened the most probable list of URLs containing the data I wanted, in the XHR Network tab. I took some time in figuring it out the treasure URL on the MakeMyTrip website. But 10 minutes into it, and tadaa! I found the URL with valid JSON, which is super easy to parse. Great. Now that thats in place, the other websites have to have a similar structure right? 

I did the exact same thing for ClearTrip, Yatra, and GoIbibo. They all have similar GET requests, something that look like :

http://xyz.com/api?origin="startPlace"?destination="landingPlace"?startDate="20151125"

And were done! :D Now the cool thing is, all links not only display the requested day's flights, but also contain the previous x days, and next x days flight details. Wohoo! Makes our URL call even cooler. 

So, Im planning to make an app and a website and go big with this :D
Plus, there are a couple websites who have tried, none have succeeded!