MIT Media Lab Application - 2018

Oh the thinks you can think! - Dr Seuss

Maker at heart.

// Struggle to make things sound complicated or to use unecessary jargon to make it a read only for the technical hearted. I make because I truly enjoy the process 

Firm believer that ideas don't pop out of thin air. Any new thing we do builds on past experiences. Even the uniqueness of creation consciously or sub consciously influenced by past learnings, experiences and observations. 

The more that building blocks the more the possibility of innovation - but for that we need to break out of our silos and assimilate experience and knowledge in diverse areas - the more diverse the better - merging arts and sciences. 

Might not have any wards or research grants under my name but i spent all my time on
Was super self motivated in making my own things so 

Would spend days on end creating a keyboard controlled car, or a crane to move things around with Lego Mindstorms very early on. I later moved to Android as a platform because it gave me all the sensors that the Mindstorms platform had but in a 
Was always looking for interesting solutions, 

My interest has always been in hardware-software solutions - there's no fun in building something you can never feel or touch. (Brings me to an interesting idea - what if you could be in a VR space of the websites you're looking at? Meaning, instead of the 2D screen we use to interact with everyday websites, what if you could physically be inside these websites and look at them through that perspective?)
Interested in cameras - worked on making a 360 degree camera with Kshitij Marwah from the Camera Culture. Later spent time with with Anirudh Sharma from Fluid Interfaces. 
Was then hooked with the way the people at Media worked and thought. Found an oportunity to work Prof Ramesh Raskar on visualization of the population during India's largest festival based on mobile networks.

What am I to do with all this time

Not only use my time to create a working prototype, but see it through to create products that can reach masses.

// Whether it is using thermal cameras on self  for next generation surveillance, or desinging a completely novel interface to using a mobile phone, or  - I don't know what it will be. 

Specifically working on making the invisible visible using thermal cameras.

-----------

// I don't have a militarized back story that turned me into an inventor, or fortunaely a  that led me to make the next technological tool for the disabled. I truly enjoyed the process of making things from the start of my childhood and that's all I've done. I've built.

-----------

// With no child prodigy awards or newspapers and government mentions, or research grants and ties with famous professors working on granular localization of heavy weight atoms using a multimodal simulation, I'd say I'm being pretty courageous in applying to the media lab.

-----------

// Boy does one get scared when they're supposed to write their best piece about their life's journey to impress the folks there. It's all the mind; if I were to write this as a blogpost, it'd have taken me less than 2 hours and I'd be done and dusted. What I should really do is write with that mindset - because that is really who I am, and then go through others sops.

-----------

// Useful advice, don't go through other's SOPs until you've written your own. Going through others' SOPs is going to heavily influence what you write for yours, or the tone in which you write it - making it no so much yours as much as an amalgamation of those that caught your eyes.

-----------

// I am an idea powerhouse, but I just haven't quite as yet been able to channel it into award-winning, globally acknowledged 

-----------

// No one is really going to come and write this for me, as much as I wish it did. I know I've done a whole lot, but putting it down into words and making it look as if it all always made sense is difficult. 

-----------


I've written stories upon stories and linked one retrofitted each event in my life that has led me up to here; how one project led to another, when very frankly at those moments in time, all I ever did was truly enjoy the process of building. However, none of those fabricated stories really resonate with the person I am, or my approach to the way I work. I am a maker at heart; I really do enjoy the process of sitting for hours on end and building something - anything, many a times without a purpose or end goal in mind. 
With the work that I have done so far, I am most interested in working with the Camera Culture group, the Fluid Interfaces group, and Responsive Environments group.

I am a firm believer of the fact that ideas do not pop out of thin air - even though it might seem so sometimes. Much like the Lego creations I built as a child with my NXT kits, any new thing we do builds on our past experiences. Even the uniqueness of the creation is consciously or subconsciously influenced by our past learnings, experiences and observations. And so it follows, the more diverse the buildings blocks, the more the possiblity of innovation - we never truly just solve a maths equation, we're bridging the gap of arts and sciences.

My interest from early on has always been in creating tangible things - not things that exist solely in the virtual world - the great world wide web. I started off by using Android as a platform because it gave me all the sensors the Lego Mindstorms NXT kit did, but in a very compact form. Ever since, I've worked on dozens of applications leveraging the IMU, the camera and built on top of the standard Android interface to create things. Some of these that started off as weekend hacks just to see of something of the sort could be possible ended up being full time side projects, some of which I continue to work on till date. 

With Lens Launcher, an open source Android launcher I contributed to heavily, we aimed at changing the way the traditional menu screen - the rectangular grid of apps - is used. We laid out all apps in a rectangular grid, but used a graphical fish eye lens to interact and feel the list of apps by providing haptic feedback when hovered over. The launcher was much appreciated in the Android community and has crossed well over a million downloads. It also won the most creative app award at Google's Android Experiments in 2017.

At Tesseract Imaging, an MIT Media Lab spinoff started by Kshitij Marwah, I worked on creating a 360 degree viewer, and an interactive virtual reality walkthrough of multiple adjacent 360 degree images captured by the 360 degree camera we built. This period was especially fun because I experienced the way Media Lab, with Kshitij having led the Meda Lab India initiative. 

I later spent a month with Anirudh Sharma, a graduate from the Media Lab's Fluid Interfaces group where we spent almost every other day working on a new project.

I was hooked to the way the people at the Media Lab worked and thought, and I started seeing a pattern. The trick was to keep the fire burning to note down those ideas and put your soul into doing them. I found an oportunity to work Prof. Ramesh Raskar on visualization of the population during India's largest festival based on mobile networks.

Ever since, I've spent a weekend every month on trying something completely new, just for the fun of it. I created a WhatsApp mass forwarder to allow communication between multiple groups to beat the then 50 member group limit, attempted at externally controlling a cheap and drift-y quad copter to hover over a point using a PID loop, a Google Home powered door lock using Lego, a utility app with a beautiful interface to set multiple alarms because I caught myself setting a series of 5 alarms every morning just to make sure I wake up amongst dozens of other creative ideas just because I truly enjoy sitting in my room and making something - anything. One of these side projects have also grown into a part-time source of income with an Android app named Lifehacks, a creative content providing app on hacking your way in every-day life, creating a very smooth and fluent user interface.

For over 2 years now, I've been a part of Tonbo Imaging, a thermal camera company for military reconnaisense where I've been a part of the pipeline of creating thermal cameras from scratch, building a team, and working on difficult problems to solve on a computationally limited processor. The product is consists of modular harware + modular software to build different variants for specific use cases. 
A specific such problem of a worthy mention is real time stabilization using the onboard gyroscope for elimating low frequency shake, and eliminating high frequency shake by running an optical flow tracker on a part of the image. During this period I also created an Android library to take a continuous media source, apply OpenGL filters - specifically false coloring thermal video output, and configure rendering in shape, size and rotation in 3D space. It also allows for quick exchange of frames between the CPU and GPU.

Whether it is using thermal cameras to make the _visible invisible_, or making designing a completely new interface to using displays, or I don't quite know what it will be. Having said this, I have demonstrated the fire to make, and am an idea powerhouse, which makes me a perfect fit for the Media Lab.










----------

- remove the many I's from everywhere
- include Prof Bagler and his work
- relate with the work that the 3 groups are doing
- bring in some of their past projects into this
- 

---------

Ganesh Bagler
412 his assistant
443 his number
